============================================================
CREATING A CHARACTER
============================================================

Creating a Character
The other option is to create your own character from
scratch. Using the character creation screen, you will
make choices that will determine how your character will
start the game.
For more information on character abilities, see the
Character chapter and the following pages:
Primary Statistics
Page 22
Derived Statistics
Page 24
Tag Skills
Page 28
Traits 
Page 26

You can also click on any
element of the character screen
to get more information from the
info card in the lower right
hand corner of the screen. If
you want details about any
statistic, skill or trait,
simply click on the part in
question. The card will change
to show you a graphic cartoon of
the statistic, skill, or trait and you will get a small
text description.
How to create your Character
The easy way to create your character is to follow some
simple steps. The character editor does not require that
you follow of all these steps in order, so you can branch
out and make little tweaks as you work on your character.
1. Think of a concept for your Character.
2. Select the Primary Statistics.
3. Select up to two Traits.
4. Choose three Tag Skills.
5. Select the sex of your Character.
6. Adjust the age of your Character.
7. Type your Character’s name.
8. Save your Character for future reference or
changes.
9. Start the game!
Character Concept
Start with a brief idea of what your character should be.
Determine what kind of character you would like to play.
Should the character be male or female? Strong or weak?
Smart or dumb? Good with ranged weapons, melee weapons or
martial arts? The answers to these questions, and others,
will determine your character concept. Some characters
are very specialised, others will be good in many
different skills and be generalists.

Primary Statistics
Adjusting the seven primary
statistics will give you the
most control over your
character. See page 22 for more
detailed information on primary
statistics.
ST - Strength - The physical
strength of your character. This statistic affects your
ability to carry inventory items, do damage with melee
weapons and use powerful weapons effectively.
PE - Perception - The ability to see and hear. A high
Perception is critical for sharpshooting characters.
EN - Endurance - How tough your character is. Characters
with a high Endurance can take more damage, and they are
more resistant to poison and radiation.
CH - Charisma - The ability to look good and act
charming. If your character has a good Charisma, it will
make your relationships with non-player characters (NPCs,
see page 85) in the game easier.
AG - Agility - How well your character moves. How far you
can move in combat is directly related to the Agility
score of your character. It will also affect the rating
of many physical skills.
IN - Intelligence - How bright and smart your character
is. The number of skill points you get each experience
level, and the starting ratings of many mental skills, is
based on your character’s Intelligence.
LK - Luck - This is the most unusual of all of the
primary statistics. It covers nothing at all, a little
bit of some things and everything. All at once. Luck
affects many things in tiny amounts.
You start with a base of 5 points in all of your
primary statistics. This is average. Primary statistics
vum
! /Ivrg
PE- -0-6H|/Ivrg
|/Ivrg

are valued from 1 to 10, with 1
being the worst and 10 being the
best. The following chart will
give you an idea of the
differences between the various
levels.
1) Very Bad
2) Bad
3) Poor
4) Fair
5) Average
6) Good
7) Very Good
8) Great
9) Excellent
10) Heroic
You also get 5 free CHAR POINTS that can be spent on
your primary statistics. You must spend all of these free
points before you can start the game. You can spend these
free points in one statistic, spread them out over
several statistics or in any combination you desire.
If you need more points, since you may want to
increase more than one or two statistics to higher
levels, you can always decrease any number of statistics.
You cannot lower a statistic below 1. Any free points
gained from lowering your statistics will appear in the
CHAR POINTS display. You must also spend these points
before you can start the game.
Click the
small + and -
buttons next to a
statistic level
name to adjust
the statistic.
NOTES

Lowering your statistics is a drastic measure,
however. It should be considered with care. Lowering your
Intelligence below four, for example, can have serious
consequences on what your character can say to other
people in the Fallout world.
Adjusting your primary statistics is the single most
controllable thing you can do during character creation
to define your character. The initial level of your
skills, the derived statistics, and what you can excel at
during the beginning of the game are based on your
primary statistics. Choose wisely, as it is very
difficult, if not impossible, to permanently modify your
primary statistics after you are finished creating your
character. Your skills will increase, and you will gain
equipment that will allow your character to do different
things, but your primary statistics will rarely change in
any meaningful way.
Derived Statistics
Derived statistics are based on one or more primary
statistics. While you cannot directly adjust a derived
statistic, as you adjust your primary statistics, you
will see the values of the derived
statistics change. See page 88 for more
information and detail about all of the
derived statistics.
HP - Hit Points - The amount of damage
your character can take before buying the
farm, croaking, taking a long dirt nap,
and otherwise exiting the corporeal
world. Based mostly on Endurance, but
modified by ST as well. Fortunately, as
you improve and gain experience levels,
you will also gain more hit points.
II.r r-amn
31ÿ- Ilk
+
Unt
Q
A»ien faprlhi
TP
Carry Dnqht
IS#
nvTpff Dangr
ÿanaq»
Ik
Puian FIpi-
Z5r
Ra±iiTiHi R#%. 1
\

AC - Armour Class - How likely you are to be hit in
combat. Slightly different than Damage Resistance
(see below). High AC is better than low AC. Based
strictly on Agility.
AP - Action Points - How much you can do in a
single turn of combat (see Combat, page 118). The
higher the number, the better it is. Based solely
on Agility.
Carry Weight - The total amount of equipment you
can lug around the world. Characters with high
Strength scores can obviously carry more than
characters with low Strength scores.
Melee Damage - How much bonus damage your character
does with melee weapons or in hand-to-hand combat.
Bigger is better. Based on Strength.
DR - Damage Resistance - If you do get hit, how
much less damage to you take compared to the next
fellow. Higher DR means you take less damage.
Starts at 0% and goes up from there. Not based on
any primary statistic.
Poison Resistance - How much damage you take from
poison attacks is based on this derived statistic.
The larger your poison resistance, the less damage
you take. Based on Endurance.
Radiation Resistance - The larger your resistance
to radiation, the less damage you will take when
exposed to it. Based on Endurance.
Sequence - This statistic determines when you get
to take an action in a combat turn. It is based on
your Perception.
Healing Rate - How many points of damage you heal
when you rest. Based on Endurance.

Critical Chance - The chance of causing a critical blow,
and doing some form of additional damage, is based on
this statistic. This statistic is based solely on Luck.
Traits
Traits are characteristics that better define just
exactly who your character is. They don’t really fit into
a single statistic or location, but are instead just
called Traits. They all have a good and a bad impact on
your character. If you want the good side of a Trait, you
must take the bad with it.
Fortunately, Traits are optional. You do not have to
take a Trait to finish your character. If you do want to
select Traits, you may select up to two. You must do this
during character creation, since you cannot select a new
Trait once you start the game.
To select a Trait, click on
the small button next to the
Trait name. Select Traits will
be highlighted. Click the
button of a highlighted Trait
to deselect it. You can have at
most two Traits selected at a
time.
Fast Metabolism - This will increase your Healing Rate,
but reduce your radiation and poison resistances.
Bruiser - This increases your Strength, but lowers your
Action Points. Popular with the mean and nasty crowd.
Small Frame - At the cost of a reduced carry weight, you
gain some Action Points. You will not be able to carry as
much inventory, and this can have a major effect after
the beginning of the game.

One Hander - You are more likely to hit with smaller,
single-handed weapons, and less likely to hit with
larger, two-handed weapons.
Finesse - You do less damage, but have a greater chance
of doing a critical hit.
Kamikaze - You act before other people, since you have a
higher Sequence, but you lose some Armour Class and are
easier to hit.
Heavy Handed - You do more damage in melee or hand-to-
hand combat. And while you have the same chance to cause
a critical hit, your critical hits are not as good as the
next fellow.
Fast Shot - You can use a projectile or thrown weapon
more often each combat turn. The AP cost to use a weapon
is reduced by one. Unfortunately, you cannot make
targeted shots if you have this Trait. You will not even
be able to switch to targeted shot mode if you are a
Fast Shot.
Bloody Mess - This has no real game effect, beyond the
fact that you will always see the bloodiest way a person
can die. This is based on the setting of the Violence
Level in the preference screen (see page 77.)
Jinxed - Everyone in the game is more likely to have a
critical failure when fighting. That includes you, too.
Good Natured - Your combat skills start lower than
normal, but your skills in First Aid, Doctor, Speech and
Barter start higher.
Chem Reliant - Your chance to be addicted when using a
Chem is higher, but you recover faster.

Chem Resistant - Chems only
affect you half as long as
normal, but your chance to be
addicted is reduced by half as
well.
Sex Appeal - This trait
increases your chance of having
a good reaction with members
of the opposite sex.
Unfortunately, this trait tends
to annoy members of your sex.
Jealous twits.
Skilled - The trait increases
the number of skill points you
receive every new level of
experience. The cost is that it takes longer to gain
Perks, additional abilities, that also come from earning
experience levels.
Gifted - You have more innate abilities than most, but at
a serious cost. All primary statistics are improved, but
at a cost of lowered base skills and a reduced number of
skill points as you advance in experience levels.
Tag Skills
Skills are learned abilities. You will be able to improve
your Skills as you gain experience and learn more. All
skills have a skill level, expressed as a percentage. The
higher the skill level, the more likely you are able to
succeed at using the skill.
Tag Skills define what skills you are especially good
at. They are specialiseations. You must select three Tag
Skills before you can leave the character creation
screen.
Selecting what Skill to Tag is important. Tag Skills
get an immediate +20% bonus, and more importantly,
improve faster than normal skills. When you gain
experience levels, you will gain a number of skill points
to spend. Each skill point is doubled when spent on a Tag
Skill. See page 111 for a detailed explanation of gaining
To select a
skill to Tag, click the small
button next to the skill
name.  The button will be
lit, and the skill name
highlighted.  To deselect
the skill, in case you want
to Tag another skill,
simply click the button
again.
NOTES

experience levels and skill points.
For more information about the various skills, see
page 91.
Small Guns - The use of pistols and other small firearms
in combat. Based on Agility.
Big Guns - The use of bigger firearms and other massive
ranged weapons. Based on Agility.
Energy Weapons - Using energy weapons in ranged combat.
Based on Agility.
Unarmed - Using your fists and feet in hand-to-hand
combat. Based off of the average of Strength and Agility.
Melee Weapons - The use of melee weapons, like knives and
spears, in battle. Based on the average of Strength and
Agility.
Throwing - How well you can aim a thrown object. This is
used with grenades, throwing knives, and other tossed
weapons. Based on Agility.
First Aid - The healing of minor wounds. Based on
Perception and Intelligence.
Doctor - The healing of major wounds, and crippled or
broken bones. Based on Perception and Intelligence.
Sneak - The art of moving silently. Based solely on
Agility.

Lockpick - How skilled you are in defeating locks and
other mechanisms designed to keep you out. Based on
Perception and Agility.
Steal - The skill of acquiring what is not yours. Can be
used to steal items off of a person, or to give a person
an item without them knowing about it. Based on Agility.
Traps - The skill in spotting and disarming traps. Also
used to set traps and explosives. Based on Perception and
Agility.
Science - Knowledge of all things scientific, like
chemistry and computers. Also includes knowledge of
machines, but not how to repair or jimmy them. Based only
on Intelligence.
Repair - The practical side of the Science skill. How to
fix (or break) machines and other man-made devices. Based
on Intelligence.
Speech - How well you can talk to other people. A high
speech skill can improve your chances of talking people
into doing what you want them to do. Based off of
Charisma.
Barter - The skill of trading items. A good Barter skill
will allow you to trade less and get more. Based on
Charisma.
Gambling - The skill of cards, dice and other gambling
games. Based only on Luck.
Outdoorsman - The knowledge of plants, animals and living
in wide open areas. Based on Intelligence and Endurance.
Name, Age and Sex
Click on the NONE button in the upper left hand corner of
the screen to change your name.

You cannot change your name once
you start the game, so pick
something other than NONE, the
character with no name.
Your name is the key to your
character. The name you pick
should represent the concept
behind your game.
Your character’s age and sex
will also define your character.
And these attributes will have
minor effects in the game world.
Some non-player characters will react differently
to your character if your character is male instead
of female. Age, on the other hand, will rarely
affect your character and there is no difference
between older or younger characters. There is no
penalty for growing too old, either, in the game
world.
Finishing your Character
Once you have spent all of your character points on
your primary statistics, selected any optional
Traits, selected your three Tag Skills, set your
name, sex and age, you are ready to begin.
Click on the DONE button to start Fallout 2
using this character.
Click on the CANCEL button if you want to return
to the character selection screen. The current
character will be lost to time.
Alternatively, you can click on the OPTIONS
button, which will display a window
with some options that are
available only during character
creation.
Character Screen Options
These options are only available
from the character creation screen.
That’s an
old joke, but it’s
still pretty
funny!
NOTES
Mht W nil

SAVE - This will save the current character to a file on
your computer’s hard drive. If you click this button, a
save character window will appear. Enter a file name and
press ENTER to save the character. Use this if you want
to pass the file around to your friends, or if you want
to keep a copy of your starting character for posterity.
Once you start the game, you cannot use the character
editor to modify your character.
LOAD - Click this button to load a previously saved
character file. This will not load a regular save game.
It will only load a character file saved through this
window.
PRINT TO FILE - This will save your character in a
friendly, easy to read text file version. This will allow
you to post your character to the Internet, or just print
it out and hang it on the wall! You will be asked for a
file name. Type one in and press ENTER. Then look in the
Fallout 2 directory for a text file with that name.
ERASE - If you click this button, it will erase the
current character and let you start over from scratch.
You will be asked for confirm this operation. For the
sake of your little electron buddies that make up the
current character, choose wisely.
DONE - Clicking this button will return you to the
character editor screen.